GIT -Open Source version control system 

TFS - Team Foundation System -

GitBash :Install it for windows

Create a Directory/Folder for the training and move to that folder
Eg : c:\Banu\Infinite

Local Repository : 
1. git init
2. create some files
3. git add .
4. git commit -m <"message">
5. create a remote repo and copy the link
6. git remote add <remote repo alias name> <link of the remote repo>
7. git push <remote repo alias name> master
8. for getting any changes done at the remote repo
    type  git pull <remote repo alias name> master

-- Git status 
-- git remote -v ( to see which is the remote repo in sync with our local repo)

Global/Remote Repository


Dot Net Framework : Is a software component that runs predominantly on windows os.
 It provides tools and libraries that enable the developers to build software faster and easier (RAD- Rapid Application Development)

Dot Net is Microsofts web services strategy to connect information,people,systems and devices through software

Types of Application:
1. Console /Desktop
2. Web Application  - restful apis  (.net framework and .net core)
3. Mobile Application - Xamarin

Namespace : is a logical organization of other namespaces,classes,interfaces,structures,delegates,events etc..
--is also used to avoid name clashes

On Compilation of  dot net sourcecode - assemblies are created

Assemblies : Are a fundamental unit of deployement,
 version control,
reuse
 and security for a .net application
- It contains - PE(portable executable) header, CLR Header, Manifest and IL
- Manifest file contains metadata (data aboutthe data)

Assemblies can be either of type .exe or .dll

Assemblies can be either shared or private
Shared Assemblies are placed in GAC (Global Assembly Cache)

Assembler Tools :
1. ILDASM - IL Disassembler
2. ILASM - IL Assembler

CSharp : as a Language 

Is a modern, general purpose object oriented programming language developed by Microsoft (Anders Hejls-berg) 

Obeject Oriented programming (OOPS)
 WYSIWYG

Class : A blue print of a complete unit of Data (state) and Behaviours. It a data type (user defined)

app a=new app();
a.display();
Objects : An instance of a class


Data Types : it ia type of data variable will store such like int,float
it specfies size and type of variable value

2 types
1. Value Types 
user defined -structured,enumerations
predefined- All Integral data types(system/primitive/fundamental)
  Boolean, Integer,Float,Decimal,Character  etc.

2. Reference Types 
predefined- string ,object
user defined: All class,arrays,interface,delegates,events etc 





