
Events that get triggered

Aplication_start() - If appln is not already running, and if a request is received by the server

Session_Start()- when a new user invokes the sefrver application. Unique instance of the browser (session_id)

session_end()-session times out or user logs out.

Application_error()- to handle exceptions at the appplication level

Application_Events - Global data

Session_Events- initialize data that needs to be available only for that user session

Http protocol is a stateless protocol

Statemanagement : The ability to retain the state of the page(values in various controls).

Manage the state in the application using techniques as below:

Client Side Techniques	    Server Side Techn.

1. ViewState				1. Session State
2. Hidden Fields			2. Application State
3. Cookies
4. Query Strings


1. ViewState : A variable not typecasted. Is a dictionary object that can store any data. 
-Any UDT(User Defined Type) can be stored.
-It is stored in the client side
-Can retain the state (values of the controls) across multiple post backs of the same page

Note: In general all asp controls(<asp:>) have a default viewstate variable


2. Hidden Field : is a control as a part of the tool box, which is not visible at the runtime
-Through hiddenfields we can store the data
-Like ViewStatate, Hidden fields can also maintain the state only within the sames page's postback

Hidden field is a class, which has to be initialized and all members to be initialized. This can pose a load on the system, where as a viewstate is a variable that does not load the system. 

When we need to maintain the state of many controls, use viewstate. In case we need to maintain the state of few controls, then we may use hidden fields

3. Cookies : used when we want the data to be travelling between pages (across pages)

are of 2 types
		1. Persistant cookie ( uses a httpcookie object- collection of data)
		2. non-persistant cookie (does not use any cookie object, instead stores directly into response and request objects)

4. Query String- symbols like these are used ? %). It is an url which is visible on the address bar. hence no sensitive should be passes using query string. Small and not very sensitive data can be sent via query string.


5. Session State:

6. Application State: 

Global.asax : is also knwon as ASP.Net application file


Master Page: allows to create a consistent look and behaviour for all the pages of the application








