Database  : Storage of inter related data that has been organised in such a fashion that the process of retrieving data is effective and effcient

Database Management System :A set of programs that helps to collect inter related data, store and access in an environment that is both convenient and efficient

Purpose of Database Systems:  Data Redundancy and Inconsistancy. Data Isolation, Data Security, Data access etc.. were all posing problems when stored in a flat file system. Hence there was a need to have something better than file system

Data Models : A collection of tools for describing
  - data
  - data relationships
  - data semantics
  - data Constraints

Types of Model :
Hierarchial Database MS
Network Database MS
Relational Database MS
Object Relational Database MS : Multimedia and Hyper Text supported Data

RDBMS works on the concept of Relational Algebra (set theory)

Data is stored in the form of Tables also known as Relations

A table /Relation is a matrix with rows and columns

E/R diagram - Entity Relationship diagram

Entity : is anything that exists and is distinguishable. Is like an object which has describing features called as attributes

Attributes : are descriptive features that form the columns of the table

Tuples : are the rows of the table ( where the actual data is available)

Degree : number of attributes

Cardinality : no. of tuples

Primary Key : a Unique identifier for the table

Types of Relationships
one to one
one to many
many to many courses

Various Keys in RDBMS

1. Candidate Key
2. Alternate Key
3. Primary Key - cannot have duplicate values and null values
4. Composite Key/Compound - more than one column becoming a primary key for a table
5. Unique Key - is like pK, but can take up one null
6. Foreign key - can be duplicates and can have nulls, but the values in FK always have to have a match in PK (in another table)

Employee id, EmployeeName, EmployeePhone  dept
100201         Savitha       12345        Health
105321         Divya          345          null
100221         Ramakrishna    87908       Health
100455         Divya         23456789     IT


Integrity Constraints in DBMS
1. Entity Integrity : Primary Key and Unique Key
2. Domain Integrity : check, default, null, not null
3. Referential Integrity :Foreign Key

Structured Query Lang. SQL ( a set of commands to work with the database)

Consists of 5 Components
1. DDL : Data Definition Lang.(Create, Alter,Drop,Truncate)
2. DML : Data Manipulation Lang (Insert, Update, Delete)
3. DQL : Data Query Lang (Select)
4. TCL : Transaction Control Lang (Commit, Rollback)
5. DCL : Data Control Lang (Grant, Revoke)

Data Types : 
char(n)
varchar(n), nvarchar(n/max)
numeric  
float
date
real
double


isql>

Create table <tablename>
( col1 <datatype><size>  <constraints,

coln <datatype><size>  constraints)

