Transactions : Are sql statements that are executed together as one 

It consists of DML statements, DQL statements
Can have a DDL statement
Can have a DCL statement

Begins when the first DML statement is executed
Ends when any one of the following events happen
    A commit or a Rollback statement
    An auto commit statement is encountered
    The user exits
    System crashes

Transaction management ensures
  Data consistency
  Preview data changes before and after making changes   permanent
  Grouping related operations

Save Points : are logical markers/blocks of a set of statements in a transaction
It is not ANSI standard sql

rank() - that assigns a rank number to each row
rank with partition - the rows within a partition which have the same values have to receive the same rank 


Locks : 1. Shared Lock 2. Exclusive Lock

A -  Atomicity
C -  Consistency
I -  Isolation
D -  Durability



Stored Procedure : Reusable set of sql statements with a name. which is stored as an object inside the database schema.

The statements query plan also gets saved along with the procedure, hence the execution time is less

They can take input parameters, give output parameters and also one return type 

The return type of all procedures is int

Syntax : create procedure <procedure name> as
         begin
         any valid sql statement/s
         end

Functions : Are also like procedures. But they do not have any output parameters. They can take one or more input parameters. They will return any one scalar data type

Functions are broadly of 2 types viz.
  1. Scalar valued function (returns one scalar datatype)
  2. Table Valued Function (returns multiple data -rows/cols)
       a. Inline Table valued functions.(returns a table. Is not enclosed with begin and end keyword. They are used in where and join clauses 
       b. Multi Statement table valued functions


Difference between  Functions and Procedures

Functions must return a value, where as procedure need not return 
Functions have only input parameters, where as procedures have input, output parameters
Functions can be used only to perform select operations, where as procedures can perform insert,update,delete, select operations
Functions do not support transaction management or exception handling, where as procedures support both
Functions can call other functions, but not procedures, where as procedures can call other procedures and functions
Functions are executed only in select statement, where as procedures are executed using exec/execute command




